In a lot of ways historical documentation has changed. It used to be random photos and documents with little to no context and deepe understanding of these documents, often in groups. With the advent of digital history we are able to provide a deeper meaning and further understanding of historical documents especially in the way of comparing data between certain documents. Its possible to collect and store data together in a more accesible and understadnable way, where certain portions of this data are easier to extract without spending hours at a time searching. We are able to move away from warhouses full of moldy documents, photos newspapers etc. and move towards a cleaner data preservation keeping imperitive information of harddrives r stored in the cloud. Although there will always be a place for physical data haveing the advantage o a wealth of knowledge at your fingertips is extremely fortunate in particular for young historians who are not always able to access the physical historical documents.

Other ways in which the digital history and the arguments in support of, are so advance is the current ability historians have to connect with one another. Previously historians would often be in competition with one another, trying to see who would be the first to get their hands on certain information and often only being able to have one person or one small team work on projects at a time. Now we are able to spread this information world wide at the click of a button, allowing our worldly wealth of knowledge to be at our fingertips. 

The act of cycling in and out of material is another adventagious aspect of digital history. The ability to analyze data from a wide view gives historians the oppourtunity to look at large sets of data, looking for broad similarities and differences. They can then hone in on the minute details that may be similar or different. This is especially useful in cases of large numbers of articles and photographs as we saw in weeks prior. When looking at data which has been translated from historical documents you can see things like trends withing a certain era, popular phrases or even the use of words that may be different than what we see now. When reading data from a wider lense you can see things like trends over a period of time. For example when I looked at my data from the world war 2 results, the amount of data I could use was so immense at first I had trouble analyzing it, however when I looked deeper into the data and got a closer view I was able to knock out the noise. That being said as with any historical analysis we need to ensure the closer we get we do not weed out inperitive data that may change the results we get. I know right now with the wave of information we are recieveing on systemic and systematic racism around the world it is more important than ever that we use out historical knowledge to keep better records of these unfortunate incidents and I believe my generation of historians will need to keep that in mind when furthering our research as we will be srutinized with a fine tooth comb over these issues. 

When looking at historical argumentation I noticed that it is easy to have a less human approach. When analyzing historical evidence using programs and computers although there is a person behind the commands and actions a lot of the combing and collecting of data is done by the computer. With this in mind I feel it is almost easier to miss things. Take our last class for example, when scrubbing data, I noticed that a lot of what the program was trying to clean up was actually just minor differences in information. If someone were not paying attention or working too quickly it would be easy to fudge that information and it would scew the results. I think another part that is missing in the historical argumemntation of digital history is a wider view of these topics. I know even when I was scrubbing down information in a word cloud I was questioning my decisions of what to exclude or include. Putting stop words like he and she in, I questioned whether it was pertinent to have that information to support my argument. I feel like this area of history definitely new territory for many historians and that may lead to fudgy information about certain topics. 

After being a bachelor of arts in history student for 5 years this course in particular has been very different. I know many others in this course are in humanities or even a few in computer courses. I feel that my past courses have never really relied on computers or software to gather and especially not to analyze information so having the oppourtunity to explore this aspect of history has been a very new experience for me. I origionally took this class to expand my horizons of historical documentation and analysis and boy did it ever. Going from reading two or three textbooks per class to being able to disect 6000+ documents at a time has been crazy! I feel as though I am able to better understand large numbers of documents and data and I am excited to be able to utilize some of the information I gained from this class in future classes and once I am in the work force. I this another aspect of digital history that I had not experienced in other classes is the freedom that digital history brings to analyzing data. As I said above that ability to come in and out of different views allows me to look at the many layers that exist in historical documents and information and actually has given me a new appreciation for the amount of information at our disposal when we use the tools that are availible to us.

I think the affordances that digital work allows are vast and important to te collection and anlyzing of data. In particular the ability to look at large amounts of data. When looking at these large amounts of data it would take years to come to conclusions about certain events or information where now we can come to those conclusions in weeks or even days. Time is not always on our side with new historical information being discovered regularly. There will alway be new questions to answer and information to analyze so the ability to do so on a large scale is extremely adventagious.

I think the priori of knowledge required to be a digital historian is more than that for a historian who may not take advantage of these tools. I believe that in order to utilize these tools you do need a fair amount of knowledge about technology and a basic knowledge of coding. I myself had never dabbled in coding or analysis tools in the past so it has taken me some time to get into the swing of things. I also think you need some basis of knowledge in regular historical analysis. The type of work that is needed to be done in digital history is a combination of two worlds and in order for someone to be successful they need some semblance of knowledge in both these subjects. Without knowledge of technology and coding you would not be able to utilize the tools at your disposal and in contrast if that knowledge is present but there is no prior knowledge of how historical analysis usually runs, the person partaking in these doscoveries may exclude pertinent information without knowing and misrepresent the data.
